Occasionally the tip of the round might lie to you. Don't panic, this is normal.
To defeat the slaughter demon, shoot at it until it dies.
Sometimes you won't be able to avoid dying no matter how good you are at the game. Try not to stress too much about it.
When a round ends nearly everything about it is lost forever, leave your salt behind with it.
Just like real life the entropy of the game can only increase with time. If things aren't on fire yet, just wait.
Completing your objectives is good practice, but the best antagonists will strive to do more than the bare minimum to really leave an impression.
The more obscure and underused a game mechanic is, the less likely your victims are to be able to deal with it.
Space is cold and it will quickly freeze you to death if you don't protect yourself. This isn't how thermodynamics really works but just go with it.
Cleanbot.
Sometimes a round will just be a bust. C'est la vie.
This is a game that is constantly being developed for. Expect things to be added, removed, fixed, and broken on a daily basis.
It's fun to try and predict the round type from the tip of the round message.
HOP and QM sitting in a tree, a-r-g-u-i-n-g.
Your sprite represents your hitbox, so that afro makes you easier to kill. The sacrifices we make for style.
Sometimes admins will just do stuff. Roll with it.
The remake will never come out.
Plenty of things that aren't traditionally considered weapons can still be used to slowly brutalize someone to death, get creative!
DEATH IS IMMINENT!
This game is older than most of the people playing it.
Flashbangs can weaken blob tiles, allowing for you and the crew to easily destroy them.
Some people are unable to read text on a game where half of it is based on text.
There are many ways to get through plastic flaps. How many can you name?
Nanotrasen is always watching.
Most items have names longer than "soap".
Ask, and you shall receive.
Poly speaks truth.
Absolutely nothing unusual will happen this shift. Promise.
Send help. Trapped in tip writing factory.
There is no such thing as a cow level.
HONK.
Solars probably give radiation poisoning or something, considering the other power sources are deadly in their own ways.
Nanotrasen would like to remind you that the popular "Deathsquad" show is completely fictional. The Deathsquad is not real. Making any suggestion to the contrary is grounds for immediate termination.
It's rumored that you can recolor the fur on station pets in washing machines by also throwing in a crayon.
Smoking is cool, but you have to light that cigarette before you can use it! How many ways to light a cigarette can you name?
As the Head of Personnel, there is surely nothing wrong with giving the Clown all-access...
As the Chef, you can cook the limbs of your fellow crew into a set of delicious species-dependent dishes. Can you collect them all?
As a Scientist, getting drunk just enough will speed up research. Skol!
As a Security Officer, the shotgun doesn't miss. The shotgun is the superior law enforcement weapon.
As a Chemist or Scientist, you can subsist on nothing but pure sugar from your chem dispenser. It's probably really bad for your teeth. Like, I'm gonna be real, your dentist probably hates you. Actually, you probably can't even afford a dentist, and Nanotrasen sure as hell isn't giving you free dental coverage. Oh, and your medical bills are going to go through the roof when you start developing insulin resistance.
As a Wizard, you have the power to mute dead chat for 2 points. It's completely worth it, trust.
As a Wizard, there is a secret method to unlock infinite cheese...
As an IPC, you might as well stuff yourself full of implants, because an EMP is going to absolutely destroy you anyway.
